=pod

=head1 NAME

SSL_ESNI_dec, SSL_ESNI_dup, SSL_ESNI_enc, SSL_ESNI_wrap_keyshare,
SSL_ESNI_ext_free, SSL_ESNI_ext_print, 
SSL_ESNI_set_nonce, SSL_ESNI_set_private, 
SSL_ESNI_get_esni, SSL_ESNI_grease_me
- Encrypted Server Name Indication (SNI) support - internal functions

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/esni.h>
 unsigned char *SSL_ESNI_wrap_keyshare(
                 const unsigned char *keyshare,
                 const size_t keyshare_len,
                 const uint16_t curve_id,
                 size_t *outlen);
 int SSL_ESNI_enc(SSL_ESNI *esnikeys, 
                 size_t  client_random_len,
                 unsigned char *client_random,
                 uint16_t curve_id,
                 size_t  client_keyshare_len,
                 unsigned char *client_keyshare,
                 CLIENT_ESNI **the_esni);
 unsigned char *SSL_ESNI_dec(SSL_ESNI *esni,
 				size_t	client_random_len,
 				unsigned char *client_random,
 				uint16_t curve_id,
 				size_t	client_keyshare_len,
 				unsigned char *client_keyshare,
 				size_t *encservername_len);
 SSL_ESNI* SSL_ESNI_dup(SSL_ESNI* orig, size_t nesni, int selector);
 void SSL_ESNI_ext_free(SSL_ESNI_ext *in, int size);
 int SSL_ESNI_ext_print(BIO* out, SSL_ESNI_ext *se, int count);
 int SSL_ESNI_set_private(SSL_ESNI *esni, char *private_str);
 int SSL_ESNI_set_nonce(SSL_ESNI *esni, unsigned char *nonce, size_t nlen);
 int SSL_ESNI_get_esni(SSL *s, SSL_ESNI **esni);
 int SSL_ESNI_grease_me(SSL *s, CLIENT_ESNI **cp);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

We'll likely soon move the prototypes for these out of esni.h and into and
esni-int.h file.  (That'll need to be included in esnistuff/esnimain.c) Doing
that might force some more code changes to really make all the right data
structures internal though, so it may be a while before I get there. 

=head1 RETURN VALUES

Everyone returns 1 for success basically.

=head1 SEE ALSO

The specification: https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-tls-esni

My fork has a bit of a design doc: https://github.com/sftcd/openssl/blob/master/esnistuff/design.md

=head1 HISTORY

Initially developed by Stephen Farrell. Subsequently supported by OTF via
the DEfO project: https://defo.ie/

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2002-2019 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
