=pod

=head1 NAME

SSL_ech_set1_echconfig, SSL_ech_set1_svcb,
SSL_ech_set_server_names, SSL_ech_set_outer_server_name,
SSL_ech_set_outer_alpn_protos,
OSSL_ECH_INFO_free, OSSL_ECH_INFO_print,
SSL_ech_get_info, SSL_ech_reduce, SSL_ech_get_status,
SSL_ech_set_grease_suite, SSL_ech_set_grease_type,
SSL_ech_set_callback, SSL_ech_get_retry_config,
SSL_CTX_ech_set1_echconfig, SSL_CTX_ech_server_get_key_status,
SSL_CTX_ech_server_flush_keys, SSL_CTX_ech_server_enable_file,
SSL_CTX_ech_server_enable_buffer, SSL_CTX_ech_server_enable_dir,
SSL_CTX_ech_raw_decrypt, SSL_CTX_ech_set_callback,
ossl_ech_make_echconfig
- Encrypted ClientHello (ECH) functions

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/ech.h>

 int SSL_ech_set1_echconfig(SSL *s, int *num_echs,
                            int ekfmt, char *ekval, size_t eklen);
 int SSL_ech_set1_svcb(SSL *s, int *num_echs,
                       int rrfmt, char *rrval, size_t rrlen);
 int SSL_ech_set_server_names(SSL *s, const char *inner_name,
                              const char *outer_name, int no_outer);
 int SSL_ech_set_outer_server_name(SSL *s, const char *outer_name, int no_outer);
 int SSL_ech_set_outer_alpn_protos(SSL *s, const unsigned char *protos,
                                  unsigned int protos_len);

 void OSSL_ECH_INFO_free(OSSL_ECH_INFO *info, int count);
 int OSSL_ECH_INFO_print(BIO *out, OSSL_ECH_INFO *info, int count);
 int SSL_ech_get_info(SSL *s, OSSL_ECH_INFO **info, int *count);
 int SSL_ech_reduce(SSL *s, int index);

 int SSL_ech_get_status(SSL *s, char **inner_sni, char **outer_sni);

 int SSL_ech_set_grease_suite(SSL *s, const char *suite);
 int SSL_ech_set_grease_type(SSL *s, uint16_t type);

 void SSL_ech_set_callback(SSL *s, SSL_ech_cb_func f);

 int SSL_ech_get_retry_config(SSL *s, const unsigned char **ec, size_t *eclen);

 int SSL_CTX_ech_set1_echconfig(SSL_CTX *ctx, int *num_echs,
                                int ekfmt, char *ekval, size_t eklen);
 int SSL_CTX_ech_server_get_key_status(SSL_CTX *ctx, int *numkeys);
 int SSL_CTX_ech_server_flush_keys(SSL_CTX *ctx, time_t age);
 int SSL_CTX_ech_server_enable_file(SSL_CTX *ctx, const char *file);
 int SSL_CTX_ech_server_enable_buffer(SSL_CTX *ctx, const unsigned char *buf,
                                      const size_t blen);
 int SSL_CTX_ech_server_enable_dir(SSL_CTX *ctx, int *loaded,
                                   const char *echdir);
 int SSL_CTX_ech_raw_decrypt(SSL_CTX *ctx,
                             int *decrypted_ok,
                             char **inner_sni, char **outer_sni,
                             unsigned char *outer_ch, size_t outer_len,
                             unsigned char *inner_ch, size_t *inner_len);

 void SSL_CTX_ech_set_callback(SSL_CTX *ctx, SSL_ech_cb_func f);

 int ossl_ech_make_echconfig(unsigned char *echconfig, size_t *echconfiglen,
                             unsigned char *priv, size_t *privlen,
                             uint16_t ekversion, uint16_t max_name_length,
                             const char *public_name, OSSL_HPKE_SUITE suite,
                             const unsigned char *extvals, size_t extlen);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Encrypted ClientHello (ECH) is defined in
L<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-tls-esni/> and defines a way to
encrypt the (interesting) content of the TLS ClientHello message so that the
encrypted version is sent in an encrypted inner ClientHello contained within an
outer ClientHello that contains the less sensitive data required for the TLS
exchange.  This page describes the ECH APIs defined for clients and servers.
Additional information about ECH can be found on the manual pages for
L<openssl-s_client(1)>, L<openssl-s_server(1)> and L<openssl-ech(1)>.

=head2 Setting ECH public values for clients

In order to use Encrypted ClientHello (ECH) in a TLS session, the client must
first associate at least one ECH public value with an I<SSL> or I<SSL_CTX>.
Typically, the application will read those values from the DNS (from an SVCB or
HTTPS resource record) or from a file so we provide functions allowing the
application to provide that information to the TLS stack.
The SVCB and HTTPS resource records are defined in
L<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-dnsop-svcb-https/>.

If an ECH public value is associated with an I<SSL> session, and if
TLS version 1.3 is used for the session then the client will attempt
to use ECH when a new TLS session is negotiated e.g. using L<SSL_connect(3)>
or L<SSL_write(3)>. If an ECH public value is associated with an I<SSL>
session but a different TLS version is used for the session (e.g. TLS version
1.2) then ECH will not be used but the SSL session will be created as usual.

SSL_ech_set1_echconfig() and SSL_CTX_ech_set1_echconfig() allow clients to
provide a binary or encoded ECHConfigList in the I<ekval> (of size I<eklen>).
Various encodings (binary, ascii-hex, base64) are supported via the I<ekfmt>
as described in the L</Constants> section. If all is well, the ECHConfigList
value (containing an ECH public value) will be associated with the SSL session
I<s> and ECH will be attempted when a TLS session is established.
In the case of SSL_CTX_ech_set1_echconfig(), the ECH settings will be
inherited when a new SSL connection is formed via L<SSL_new(3)>.

As an ECHConfigList can contain multiple public values, these functions also
return a I<num_echs> value indicating how many public values in total are
associated with the I<SSL> or I<SSL_CTX> input.  If multiple calls to these
functions are made for the same I<SSL> or I<SSL_CTX> value, then the
ECHConfigList values will be accumulated and the I<num_echs> returned will
reflect the total number of ECH public values available. Similarly, if
some ECH public values are associated with an I<SSL_CTX> and an I<SSL>
is derived from that, those public values will be carried over into the
latter data structure.

These functions support catenated input values for I<ekval>. Internal
length fields mean no separator is needed for binary or ascii-hex encodings,
but if catenated base64 encoded values are provided those must be separated
using a semi-colon (see L</Constants>). This can be useful for handling
the output of certain scripts.

SSL_ech_set1_svcb() is similar to SSL_ech_set1_echconfig() except the input
I<rrval> should be a binary, ascii-hex, base64 or zone file presentation format
encoding of an entire or partial HTTPS or SVCB resource record value retrieved
from the DNS. I<rrlen> is the length of the I<rrval> input. The I<num_echs>
output reflects the total number of ECH public values associated with the
I<s> input. Multiple calls to SSL_ech_set1_svcb() will accumulate values.

If the input provided decodes correctly, then any ECHConfigList values
contained therein will be associated with the I<SSL> session just as if those
values had been provided via SSL_ech_set1_echconfig(). No other fields within
the SVCB or HTTPS value will be stored (e.g., if the value contains ALPN
information, the application needs to handle that separately). Note that it is
entirely valid for there to be HTTPS or SVCB records published in the DNS that
contain no ECH public values - in such cases this function will succeed (i.e.
return 1) but the I<nun_echs> output won't reflect any newly stored ECH public
values. As with SSL_ech_set1_echconfig() the I<rrval> provided can be a
catenated list.

ECH public values can contain a list of versioned values, and not
all versions are supported. Versions that are unsupported will be
skipped over - the relevant function will succeed, but the I<num_echs>
value returned will only reflect the ECH public values for supported
versions.

There is no attempt to de-duplicate ECH public values provided via these
APIs - if the same value is provided twice, then the relevant I<SSL> or
I<SSL_CTX> structure with have two more public values associated.
When an I<SSL> object is derived from an I<SSL_CTX> object, the ECH
public values associated with the latter are deep-copied to the former.

Internal copies of ECH public values associated with an I<SSL> or I<SSL_CTX>
object will be freed when the I<SSL> or I<SSL_CTX> object is freed.

SSL_ech_set1_echconfig(), SSL_CTX_ech_set1_echconfig() and SSL_ech_set1_svcb() all
return 1 for success and 0 in the case of error.

=head2 Setting Server Name Indication (SNI) and ALPN values for clients

TLS sessions that use ECH can provide different values for the Server Name
Indication (SNI) field in the inner and outer ClientHello messages. Doing so is
the primary reason for the existence of ECH as it can provide better privacy
for clients. We therefore provide functions to control the values used for
SNI in the inner and outer ClientHello messages.

ECHConfigList values contain a "public_name" field, which is intended (by
the owner of the HTTPS/SVCB resource record) to be used for the outer ClientHello
SNI value when the owner's name is used as the value for the inner SNI.

By default when ECH is used, whatever SNI value would have been used in the
ClientHello (e.g. as provided to L<SSL_set_tlsext_host_name(3)>) is used as the
value for the inner SNI, and the "public_name" value from the ECHConfigList is
used for the outer SNI value.

The Application Layer Protocol Negotiation (ALPN) extension to TLS can also
represent a potential privacy leak, so we also support providing different
values in the inner and out TLS ClientHello messages for this field.
ALPN is defined in RFC 7301.

SSL_ech_set_server_names() allows the caller to set explicitly set the inner
and outer SNI values that will be used for an SSL session I<s> via the
I<inner_name> and I<outer_name> parameters. If the application prefers to
emit no outer SNI value at all then it should set the I<no_outer> to 1
and a NULL value should be provided for I<outer_name>.

Alternatively, if the application only wishes to control the outer SNI value,
the SSL_ech_set_outer_server_name() can be used to specify that value (in the
I<outer_name> parameter) or to cause no outer SNI to be sent (if the I<no_outer>
parameter has the value 1 and I<outer_name> is NULL).

Outer SNI name values provided via these APIs will override the "public_name"
from the relevant ECHConfigList, HTTPS or SVCB resource record.

Typically, applications control ALPN values via L<SSL_CTX_set_alpn_protos(3)> and
the value input there will be used as the value for ALPN In the inner ClientHello.
If the application wishes to use a different value for the outer ClientHello
then it can use SSL_CTX_ech_set_outer_alpn_protos() to associated the required
values with the I<SSL> session. The I<protos> and I<protos_len> parameters are
handles as for L<SSL_CTX_set_alpn_protos(3)>.

SSL_ech_set_server_names(), SSL_ech_set_outer_server_name() and
SSL_CTX_ech_set_outer_alpn_protos() all return 1 for success and 0 for error.

=head2 Generating ECH key pairs and ECHconfigs

ossl_ech_make_echconfig() allows applications to generate an ECH key pair
and create a matching binary encoded ECHConfigList in the I<echconfig> buffer.
That buffer has size I<echconfiglen> on input. On output I<echconfiglen> has
the length of the actual ECHConfigList. The private key will be written in
PKCS#8 format in the I<priv> buffer. On input the I<privlen> parameter has
the size of the I<priv> buffer. On output I<privlen> contains the length
of the actual encoded private key.

The other inputs control the ECHConfig options:

=over 4

=item - I<ekversion> is the ECH version to use (should be 0xfe0d)

=item - I<max_name_length> is the maximum length of inner SNI name (0 is a good default)

=item - I<public_name> is a string containing the name to use in the outer SNI

=item - I<suite> is an OSSL_HPKE_SUITE value (OSSL_HPKE_SUITE_DEFAULT is a good default, see L<OSSL_HPKE_CTX_new(3)> for details)

=item - I<extvals> is a buffer of already TLS-encoded ECH extension values (NULL is a good value)

=item - I<extlen> is the length of I<extvals>

=back

Note that at the time of writing there are no known implementations that
make use of ECH extensions.

ossl_ech_make_echconfig() is intended for use by applications that generate
ECH configuration data, such as L<openssl-ech(1)>.


=head2 Enabling ECH for servers

In order to enable ECH for servers it is necessary to load one or more ECH
private keys and public values from files or buffers. The file format to be
used is specified in L<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-farrell-tls-pemesni/>
and conists of one private key in PKCS#8 format and a base64 encoded ECHConfig
containing one matching public value.

Once some ECH key pairs are loaded then the server will attempt ECH decryption
as needed. (See also L</ECH SSL Options>.)

SSL_CTX_ech_server_enable_file() will attempt to read an ECH key pair from
I<file>.  SSL_CTX_ech_server_enable_dir() will attempt to read an ECH key pair
from all files named "*.ech" found in the I<dir>.
SSL_CTX_ech_server_enable_buffer() allows loading one ECH key pair (still in
our ECHConfig PEM format) from a buffer. This can be needed if a server
instance has no access to a file system.

SSL_CTX_ech_server_get_key_status() returns the number of ECH key pairs loaded
in I<numkeys>.  Calls to the various SSL_CTX_ech_server_enable_*() APIs will
accumulate key pairs. The time of loading each key is recorded internally.
SSL_CTX_ech_server_flush_keys() allows a server to remove keys that were loaded
more than I<age> seconds ago.  This enables servers to periodically refresh the
set of ECH key pairs that are in used.

If ECH decryption fails, then the server will proceed with the TLS handshake
for the outer ClientHello and will return an ECH retry config containing the
ECHConfig matching the "oldest" ECH key pair still loaded.
On the client side SSL_ech_get_retry_config() can be used to access this
retry config value when indicated via the result of SSL_ech_get_status().
The retry config will be placed in the I<ec> buffer - I<eclen> should be
the buffer size on input and will be the length of the retry config on
successful return.

For servers operating in split-mode, SSL_CTX_ech_raw_decrypt() provides
a way to only attempt the ECH decryption operation. This function
takes the outer ClientHello in I<outer_ch> of size I<outer_len> and
if decryption succeeds, returns the inner ClientHello in I<inner_ch>
of size I<inner_len> (on input I<inner_len> should contain the size
if the I<inner_ch> buffer) and sets I<decrypted_ok> to 1. Note that
an inner ClientHello will always be smaller than an outer ClientHello.
The encoding of both I<outer_ch> and I<inner_ch> begins with the
TLS message type and 3-octet length (i.e. the initials octet are
[0x16, 0x03, 0x01] followed by a 2-octet length).

If decrytpion succeeds in SSL_CTX_ech_raw_decrypt() then the
I<decrypted_ok> value will be returned as 1. If no ECH is present,
SSL_CTX_ech_raw_decrypt() will return 1 but
I<decryption_ok> will be 0. If decryption
succeeds, the I<inner_sni> and I<outer_sni> values will be populated
based on the values seen. (The caller must free those strings using
OPENSSL_free() when done.)

=head2 Accessing ECH information

Given multiple ECH public values can be associated with a single I<SSL>
session, client applications may need to be able to view and/or control which
values will be used when a TLS session is created. We provide a way to
view the current ECH public values associated with an I<SSL> session
and a way to down-select to just one of those values, if desired.

SSL_ech_get_info() returns an array of I<count> B<OSSL_ECH_INFO> structures.
B<OSSL_ECH_INFO> is defined as:

 typedef struct ossl_ech_info_st {
     int index; /* externally re-usable reference to this value */
     char *public_name; /* public_name from API or ECHConfig */
     char *inner_name; /* server-name (for inner CH if doing ECH) */
     char *outer_alpns; /* outer ALPN string */
     char *inner_alpns; /* inner ALPN string */
     char *echconfig; /* a JSON-like version of the associated ECHConfig */
 } OSSL_ECH_INFO;

OSSL_ECH_INFO_print() is a utility function to print an array of structures
such as the above and OSSL_ECH_INFO_free() can be used to release associated
memory.

An example of the output from OSSL_ECH_INFO_print() is:

 index: 0: SNI (inner:NULL;outer:NULL), ALPN (inner:NULL;outer:NULL)
	 [fe0d,bb,example.com,0020,[0001,0001],62c7607bf2c5fe1108446f132ca4339cf19df1552e5a42960fd02c697360163c,00,00]

If needed, the application can down-select to just one of these values before
the TLS session is established by using the I<index> value for the value
desired via the SSL_ech_reduce() function.

Clients and servers can query the status of ECH for a TLS session using the
SSL_ech_get_status() function. As SNI handling is core to ECH this will return
the I<inner_sni> and I<outer_sni> values to be used or that were used as well
as a status code as the return value. The various status values are as shown in
L</Constants>.

=head2 ECH SSL Options

There are three SSL options associated with ECH that can be set via
SSL_CTX_set_options():

=over 4

=item B<SSL_OP_ECH_GREASE> allows clients to enable GREASEing (see L</GREASEing>).

=item B<SSL_OP_ECH_IGNORE_CID> sets the client to ignore the server-chosen ECH config ID and send a random value

=item B<SSL_OP_ECH_TRIALDECRYPT> sets a server to attempt trial decryption with all loaded ECH keys

=back


=head2 GREASEing

Clients can choose to send a "fake" ECH extension value when not really attempting
ECH in order to GREASE the protocol (see RFC8701). An ECH-supporting server that
receives such a value should return a retry-config containing an ECHConfig value
that could be used. (A client could then retry with a new SSL connection.)

Setting the B<SSL_OP_ECH_GREASE> option turns on GREASEing, which is off by
default. (GREASEing ECH may be turned on by default in some future version of
OpenSSL.)

SSL_ech_set_grease_suite() and SSL_ech_set_grease_type() allow clients to control
additional details of GREASEing.

SSL_ech_set_grease_suite() take a string form of HPKE suite in I<str>. See
L<OSSL_HPKE_CTX_new(3)> for details of string encoding of HPKE suites. This allows
clients to control the visible HPKE suite in the GREASEd ECH value which can
be useful if some particular value provides reduces the ability of a network
observer to fingerprint the client. The default is "25519,hkdf-sha256,aes128gcm"

SSL_ech_get_grease_type() allows a client to use a different TLS extension
type codepoint (rather than the current 0xfe0d value, which is the default).
This allows clients to GREASE with future extension type codepoints if needed.

=head2 Callback Function

Applications can set a callback function that will be called when the
outcome from an attempt at ECH has been determined. On the server,
that happens early, as part of construction of the ServerHello message.
On the client, the callback will happen after the SeverHello has
been processed. In the event of HelloRetryRequest, the callback will
only be triggered when processing the second ServerHello. The callback
function will be triggered even if the client is only GREASEing.

The callback function prototype is:

 typedef unsigned int (*SSL_ech_cb_func)(SSL *s, const char *str);

To set a callback function use SSL_ech_set_callback() or
SSL_CTX_ech_set_callback() - the I<f> input should match the
above prototype.

When the callback function is called, the I<str> will point at a string
intended for logging describing the state of ECH processing.
Applications should not attempt to parse that string as the value depends
on compile time settings, local configuration and the specific processing
that happened prior to the callback. Applications that need to branch based
on the outcome of ECH processing should instead make a call to
SSL_ech_get_status() from within their callback function.

An example string I<str> as seen on a client might be:

 ech_attempted=1
 ech_attempted_type=0xfe0d
 ech_atttempted_cid=0x5d
 ech_done=1
 ech_grease=0
 ech_returned_len=0
 ech_backend=0
 ech_success=1
 2 ECHConfig values loaded
 cfg(0): [fe0d,5d,cover.defo.ie,0020,[0001,0001],190984309c1a24cb944c005eb79d9c72ca9a4a979194b553dfd0bffc6b5c152d,00,00]
 cfg(1): [fe0d,fd,cover.defo.ie,0020,[0001,0001],46dd4e2c81bb15ef9d194c99b86983844e2a1387e4fb7e7d3b8d368c8e1b4d2a,00,00]

=head2 Constants

Some externally visible limits:

=over 4

=item B<OSSL_ECH_MAX_PAYLOAD_LEN> 1500, max ECH ciphertext to en/decode

=item B<OSSL_ECH_MIN_ECHCONFIG_LEN> 32, min for all encodings

=item B<OSSL_ECH_MAX_ECHCONFIG_LEN> 1500, max for all encodings

=item B<OSSL_ECH_MAX_ECHCONFIGEXT_LEN> 100, ECHConfig extension max

=item B<OSSL_ECH_MAX_MAXNAMELEN> 255, ECHConfig max for max name length

=item B<OSSL_ECH_MAX_PUBLICNAME> 255, max ECHConfig public name length

=back

Supported formats for encodings of ECHConfig and SVCB values read from DNS
or from files:

=over 4

=item B<OSSL_ECH_FMT_GUESS>     0, implementation will guess

=item B<OSSL_ECH_FMT_BIN>       1, catenated binary ECHConfigs

=item B<OSSL_ECH_FMT_B64TXT>    2, base64 ECHConfigs (';' separated)

=item B<OSSL_ECH_FMT_ASCIIHEX>  3, ascii-hex ECHConfigs (';' separated

=item B<OSSL_ECH_FMT_HTTPSSVC>  4, presentation form with "ech=<b64>"

=item B<OSSL_ECH_FMT_SEPARATOR>  ";" separator str for catenation

=back


ECH version - we only support draft-13 as of now.  As/if new versions
are added, those will be noted here.
This isn't directly used in APIs (but is present/checked-for in some
encoded values), so is only made visible here as it has changed with
each substantive revision of the draft specification (and will likely
change at the last moment when an RFC is issued).

=over 4

=item B<OSSL_ECH_DRAFT_13_VERSION> 0xfe0d, version from draft-13

=back

Return codes from SSL_ech_get_status

=over 4

=item B<SSL_ECH_STATUS_BACKEND>    4, ECH backend: saw an ech_is_inner

=item B<SSL_ECH_STATUS_GREASE_ECH> 3, GREASEd and got an ECH in return

=item B<SSL_ECH_STATUS_GREASE>     2, ECH GREASE happened

=item B<SSL_ECH_STATUS_SUCCESS>    1, Success

=item B<SSL_ECH_STATUS_FAILED>     0, Some internal or protocol error

=item B<SSL_ECH_STATUS_BAD_CALL>   -100, Some in/out arguments were NULL

=item B<SSL_ECH_STATUS_NOT_TRIED>  -101, ECH wasn't attempted

=item B<SSL_ECH_STATUS_BAD_NAME>   -102, ECH ok but server cert bad

=item B<SSL_ECH_STATUS_NOT_CONFIGURED> -103, ECH wasn't configured

=item B<SSL_ECH_STATUS_FAILED_ECH> -105, We tried, failed and got an ECH

=back

=head1 RETURN VALUES

SSL_ech_set1_echconfig(), SSL_ech_set1_svcb(),
SSL_ech_set_server_names(), SSL_ech_set_outer_server_name(),
SSL_ech_set_outer_alpn_protos(),
OSSL_ECH_INFO_print(),
SSL_ech_get_info(), SSL_ech_reduce(),
SSL_ech_set_grease_suite(), SSL_ech_set_grease_type(),
SSL_ech_get_retry_config(),
SSL_CTX_ech_set1_echconfig(), SSL_CTX_ech_server_get_key_status(),
SSL_CTX_ech_server_flush_keys(), SSL_CTX_ech_server_enable_file(),
SSL_CTX_ech_server_enable_buffer(), SSL_CTX_ech_server_enable_dir(),
SSL_CTX_ech_raw_decrypt() and ossl_ech_make_echconfig()
all return 1 for success and 0 in the case of failure.

SSL_ech_set_callback(), SSL_CTX_ech_set_callback() and
OSSL_ECH_INFO_free() have no return.

SSL_ech_get_status() returns one of the B<OSSL_ECH_STATUS_*> values.

=head1 SEE ALSO

The Encrypted ClientHello specification: L<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-tls-esni/>

=head1 HISTORY

This functionality described here was added in OpenSSL 3.2.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2023 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
